README.md, before:

Dockerfile and miscellanea to bootstrap a Jupyter notebook environment using [`pystata-kernel`][1]. Works with Stata 17. Doesn't work with previous versions since they didn't ship with `pystata`.

Architecture note: This image uses Stata for Linux, which is x86_64 only. If you run this on an Apple Silicon Mac it will run under Rosetta.

[1]: https://github.com/ticoneva/pystata-kernel

# Before you start

You need a valid `stata.lic` file to build the image, and to run the container. Assuming you have a legitimate Stata license, the easiest way to obtain the `.lic` file is to install Stata on your local machine—the license file is platform-independent.

This image is quite fat—stata assumes it is being installed on a personal machine, and treats disk space as cheap and plentiful as a result. 

# Building the image

You _must_ pass your `stata.lic` file to `docker build` as a secret named `stata_lic`. If building by hand, the parameter for this is:

```bash
docker build --secret id=stata_lic,src=/path/to/stata.lic …
```

If using docker-compose, edit the `file:` entry under `secrets:`.

In addition you can override the following build-args:

## `pystata-kernel` config file options

These are used to populate `.pystata-kernel.conf`. See the [`pystata-kernel` documentation][psk-conf] for what they do.

- `stata_edition`: Corresponds to `edition` config directive. Defaults to `be`, which will work with all licenses. If you have a better license, you probably want to override this one.
- `graph_format`: Defaults to `pystata`.
- `echo_behavior`: Corresponds to `echo` config directive.
- `splash_behavior`: Corresponds to `splash` config directive.

[psk-conf]: https://github.com/ticoneva/pystata-kernel#configuration

## Build-time options

- `kernel_pkgname`: Defaults to `pystata-kernel`, so `pip` will install the release version. But can be overriden to, e.g., `git+https://github.com/ticoneva/pystata-kernel.git` to install the latest dev version. Absolutely no sanity-checking is done on this, but overriding it to something other than a version of pystata-kernel will likely have hilariously stupid results.
- `stata_target_dir`: Where to put the Stata binaries in the image. Defaults to `/usr/local/stata${stata_version}`. Whatever you specify will be symlinked to `/usr/local/stata`.
- `stata_update_tarball`: URL of the _update_ tarball to be passed to stata's `update all` command. Preset to the download link for Linux on  https://www.stata.com/support/updates/ as of this commit.
- `stata_version`: Self-explanatory. Defaults to 17.

# Running the container

When you run the container, make sure you mount your `stata.lic` at `/usr/local/stata/stata.lic`. The image installs `jupyterlab-git`; if you want to use this to push to GitHub, mount a directory with an ssh key in it at `/home/jovyan/.ssh`.

# Acknowledgements

- First inspired by David T. Jacho–Chávez's [“virtual econometrics lab”][vel]
- [kylebarron/stata_kernel][s_k] for the original, pre-`pystata` Stata kernel for JupyterLab that made this possible
- [ticoneva/pystata-kernel][psk] for building the new `pystata`-based kernel
- [AEADataEditor/docker-stata][aea] for the docker image that makes building this vastly less painful than it was, and for the idea of mounting `stata.lic` as a secret

[vel]: https://docs-jupyter.davidjachochavez.org/
[s_k]: https://github.com/kylebarron/stata_kernel/
[psk]: https://github.com/ticoneva/pystata-kernel/
[aea]: https://github.com/AEADataEditor/docker-stata

Commit message:

sample compose override, and README updates

README.md, after:

A Docker compose project to stand up a Jupyter notebook server with [`pystata-kernel`][1], so you can use Jupyter as a first-class UI for Stata.

[1]: https://github.com/ticoneva/pystata-kernel

`pystata`, on which `pystata-kernel` depends, comes with Stata 17+. Older versions of Stata will not work.

# You need a Stata licence

The image expects you to supply it with a valid `stata.lic` file. Get this from your local install of Stata, or from your IT department.

Put a copy of it in the same directory as `docker-compose.yml`, or override the `file` key for the `stata_lic` secret to tell Docker where it is.

# Quickstart

```bash
$ docker compose up
```

Everything should Just Work. Caution: the build process will download several gigabytes of data, because Stata installs are big. As much of this is cached (using Docker cache-mounts) as possible.

If you are on an M1 Mac, the image will run under Rosetta, because there is no AArch64 build of Stata for Linux.

# Customisation, etc.

Rename [`docker-compose.override.sample.yml`][ov] to `docker-compose.override.yml` and anything you set in it will override the base config. (See [the Compose documentation][docs] for more information.)

[ov]: blob/main/docker-compose.override.sample.yml
[docs]: https://docs.docker.com/compose/extends/#multiple-compose-files

The comments explain what you can override. In particular you will probably want to override `stata_edition` if your licence can accommodate it.

# Acknowledgements

- First inspired by David T. Jacho–Chávez's [“virtual econometrics lab”][vel]
- [kylebarron/stata_kernel][s_k] for the original, pre-`pystata` Stata kernel for JupyterLab that made this possible
- [ticoneva/pystata-kernel][psk] for building the new `pystata`-based kernel
- [AEADataEditor/docker-stata][aea] for the docker image that makes building this vastly less painful than it was, and for the idea of mounting `stata.lic` as a secret

[vel]: https://docs-jupyter.davidjachochavez.org/
[s_k]: https://github.com/kylebarron/stata_kernel/
[psk]: https://github.com/ticoneva/pystata-kernel/
[aea]: https://github.com/AEADataEditor/docker-stata
